http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=116628

[SOLVED] Laptop Touchscreen Calibration Debian Wheezy
Postby jjjrrr » 2014-08-07 19:54

First of all, thank you all for the contributions to this site! Today is my time to make a small contribution and hopefully help some folks as well.

The solution explained below is suited for laptops/tablets/etc. that have a touchscreen which is recognized by the operational system (accept inputs) but is not well calibrated (ex.: you touch the middle of the screen but the cursor is 3 inches off to the left, etc.). I will use some example values in red - those should be changed to your own values based on your system.

1) Install xinput; sudo apt-get install xinput
2) lets discover what is the id number of your touchscreen. run xinput list and look for it (it should be a number, ex.: 11) - from now on I will use "11" (in red) as the id number for my touchscreen as an example, keep in mind though that you should find your own value and use that.
3) find out what the OS thinks about your x-y ranges - run xinput list 11 and take note of the axis ranges (ex: x is between 0 and 4000, y is between 0 and 4000 etc. - I will use those values as an example)
4) lets find out what the OS thinks about the starting points for your screen (ex: is x=0 in the left or right of the screen, etc.) . Run xinput test 11 and touch the extremities of the screen to see where x,y start and end. Example: you may find out that the upper left corner of your screen is the origin point because you get the smaller values there. After you are done testing press ctrl+c to escape. I will use the left upper corner as a starting point as an example, you should use your own values.
5) Now the calibration itself. It involves a little of trial and error, but should be fairly quick: using the previously found ranges on step 3 as a starting point, run xinput set-prop 11 "Evdev Axis Calibration" 0 4000 0 4000. Now, start with one border of your screen. Touch the leftmost point of your screen and see how off the cursor is (say 2 inches to the right); then run again the calibration and change the min x value slightly (ex: xinput set-prop 11 "Evedev Axis Calibration" 200 4000 0 4000, and touch the same point again and check again how off the cursor is (say 1 inch, you are making progress!). repeat the process until you have perfect alignment, and then repeat the calibration for all x-min x-max y-min y-max values. Voila! your screen is calibrated. Note: I once noticed that the calibration "crashes" sometimes and does not update the values, if that happens just close and reopen the terminal. 
6) Make the calibration permanent: last step, go to /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/ (create the directory if it does not exist) as root and create a file called 99-calibration.conf and add the following code to the file:

Section "InputClass"
Identifier "calibration"
MatchProduct "Touchscreen name"
Option "Calibration" "200 4000 0 4000"
EndSection

Save the file and reboot. And it's done!